[Music]
hi everyone
and welcome to a fresh episode of
demystifying digital with russ
and sam ross how's it going mate hey
good thanks sam how are you
yeah not too bad my friend not too bad
so i believe today we're going to be
talking about the difference
between a web designer and web developer
and i know to to many of us
especially when i started in the
industry i thought both were the same
yeah but apparently not so what have you
like what have you got for us today my
friend
okay cool so web designer web developer
you we get this question quite a bit you
know do you design websites do you
develop websites
um they are different things people use
them interchangeably
best way i can think of to explain it is
like this
think about a house right when you are
going to build a house
you have someone draw it up okay what's
it going to look like here's where this
room's going to be this is where this is
going to be it's going to look pretty
like this
so that's your architect right they're
the person who actually
draws up the plans for what the house is
going to look like
in terms of actually using those plans
and building it out into a structure
or a website that's where a builder
comes in
so if you think of a builder as like a
web developer so they grab those plans
they go okay cool now i'm gonna actually
code this up and make it an actual thing
they're the ones who turn the pictures
into the reality the ones you turn uh
yeah those those sketches into an actual
website that someone can use and that
functions and does
all the things that you need a website
to do so web designer architect
web developer builder but i think like a
master builder i'm not thinking like a
tradie but like a
a full you know fully qualified i don't
want to like annoy any web developers
out there like it's a big job
what do you think yeah man it's it's
good because it's sometimes things that
especially clients when when they come
to
companies like yours and ours and they
bring to us
and quite often web design just like you
say tends to be making things look good
look pretty
doing kind of basic web work and usually
when when people
determine or talk about web development
it tends to be quite heavy jobs
so rather than just a straightforward
brochure site
um it's just information based it tends
to be a lot more data driven so it might
have extra features like user accounts
or e-commerce
or i might link to databases so yeah the
comparison is good
so um you've got designer which is like
an architect then developer like a
builder makes sense
i like it awesome thanks here
yes